ADVANCED PROGRAMMING. MINIPROJECT 2. Monads

Read the entire task description before starting to work.

We train the following skills during this exercise:

- Reimplementing some design based on a description in a research paper in the
  area of programming languages (this is useful thesis preparation work, and
  later preparation for bringing research into your professional career.)
- Using monads (obviously)
- Implementing simple evaluators for expressions in functional style
- Understanding how monads capture different side effects in an evaluator
- Understanding how exception handling is done in programming languages


Read the two first sections of "Monads for functional programming" by Phil
Wadler (linked from the course's website).

The paper's main point is that monads allow bringing some imperative
programming style into functional programming, so functional programs are easy
to modify in situations where imperative programs are easy to modify.  It
emphasizes how different side effects can be implemented in a referentially
transparent manner, all in similar style. So we also learn how different
programming language features can be modeled.

The paper does not attempt to reuse monadic implementations across types
(reusing the same functions in different monads) like we did in our earlier
exercises, and like the scalaz library does.  In this project we will stick to
the paper, and not attempt any reuse (there will be a lot of copy-paste
programming).

In this mini project we implement the evaluator for a simple term language 8
times. There are four variations: basic, with exceptions, counting divisions,
logging messages. We implement the four evaluations once directly and once in
monadic style.  Open file src/main/scala/adpro/monads/Term.scala and solve all
the tasks directly there.  They are positioned top down, in order (you just
need to fill in the gaps).

The TermSpec.scala file in the testing part of the project can be used to test
your solutions.  It only has very few tests.  Feel free to add more, if you
need.

In both files large parts are commented out, since initially, before you fill
in the gaps the files would not compile. You need to uncomment new parts in
each of the files as you proceed.

My entire solution was below 300 lines. If you are above this, you are likely
off track. Ask for feedback.

Only hand in Term.scala (zipped files and other files will be rejected by the automatic grader).
