ADVANCED PROGRAMMING. MINIPROJECT 1. Testing & Laziness.
Andrzej Wąsowski

Read the entire task description before starting to work.

Prepare a single Scala file to be handed in.

1. Implement a test suite, for a subset of the implementation of
lazy streams.  In particular, tests functions: headOption, take,
drop, map and append. Testing other functions will not be graded,
although it might help you catch some bugs.

2. Use a mixture of scenario tests and property tests as you see fit.

3. The file StreamSpecWasowski.scala contains an example of a such
a mixed test suite, exploiting ScalaTest's ability to include
property testing in ScalaCheck.  Examine this file before starting
to work.

The tests are run by issuing "sbt test" (or "sbt ~test") in the
directory containing this README file.

The test file contains two example properties. For each of the
properties the main source directory
(src/main/scala/fpinscala/laziness) contains a witness
implementation violating the property (a buggy implementation).

The file stream00/Stream.scala contains the book implementation of
lazy Streams.  This should pass all our tests.

The file stream01/Stream.scala contains an example that violates
property 01.  The file stream02/Stream.scala contains an example
that violates property 02.  Both of these files should fail a
test. Try to run these tests and check!

To switch the file you are testing, uncomment a suitable import in
the top of the StreamSpecWasowski file.  Note, that if you comment
out all imports, you are testing the standard library's
implementation of Streams (which is not what we want to do).

The build.sbt file is already set up for linking ScalaTest and
ScalaCheck's into your program.  If you keep the same setup your
testing environment will be very similar to my grading
environment, which will decrease chances of incompatibilities.

The grading environment is automatic, so please refrain from
making changes that would break it (for instance moving tests to
another testing framework, etc.) More details on the format below.

4. What properties to test?

For headOption:
- DONE - it should return None on an empty stream;  (already included in
  the examples)
- DONE - it should return some for a non-empty stream;  (already included
  in the examples)
- headOption should not force the tail of the stream.

For take:
- take should not force any heads nor any tails of the Stream it
  manipulates
- take(n) does not force (n+1)st head ever (even if we force all
  elements of take(n))
- s.take(n).take(n) == s.take(n) for any Stream s and any n
  (idempotency)

For drop:
- s.drop(n).drop(m) == s.drop(n+m) for any n, m (additivity)
- s.drop(n) does not force any of the dropped elements heads
- the above should hold even if we force some stuff in the tail

For map:
- x.map(id) == x (where id is the identity function)
- map terminates on infinite streams

For append:
- propose properties yourself

I will test the effectiveness of your spec, by providing several
broken and correct implementations for the above functions and
measuring your success rate.  The results of my testing will be
translated to a grade.


5. How to prepare your hand-in file?

Create your own spec file by renaming the file and the test class,
so that it is suffixed with your ITU email account names.  The
test must be in a single file StreamSpecUsername1Username2.scala
and contain a single class
fpinscala.laziness.StreamSpecUsername1Username2. For instance:
fpinscala.laziness.StreamSpecWasowskiSestoft

The tested class must be in fpinscala.laziness package, otherwise the
test will fail to compile and your solution will not be accepted.

The test spec should assume that the type Stream and members of
its companion object are available in scope. So do not navigate to
packages explicitly to access them. I will manipulate your file,
by changing the imported implementation of Streams, so the only
access to the implementation must be through the imports on top of
the file (like in the example).

You should write both scenario tests and property tests.

It is a good idea to test on infinite streams, and probably a good
idea to provide your own stream generator, but technically
speaking it is possible without such a generator, just
inconvenient. Your test suite should work on stream00.Stream and
fail on stream01.Stream as shown here (of course not
simultaneously, but with exactly one of the imports uncommented).

It is fine if a test just lets an exception be thrown without
interception (in the failing case).  If an exception is thrown
without being caught, we shall consider that the test has failed
(so a bug has been detected).

You are only handing in the spec file. You are not handing any
implementations that you are using for testing (I will provide my
own mischievous errors for grading).

Please keep your files 80 characters wide, not wider.

IMPORTANT: Only one ASCII file, with .scala extension will be
accepted.  No .zip files, no pdfs.
